 Application Notes: AN_SY7203

30V High Current Boost LED Driver

General Description

Features

SY7203  develops  a  step-up  DC/DC  converter  that
delivers an accurate constant current for driving LEDs.
Operating  at  a  fixed  switching  frequency  of  1MHz
allows the device to be used with small value external
ceramic  capacitors  and  inductor.  The  LED  current  is
programmable through the external resistor. The device
also supports PWM dimming for accurate LED current
control.

SY7203 is ideal for driving up to eight white LEDs in
series or up to 30V.

Input voltage range: 2.8 to 30V

•
•  Switch current limit: 4A
•  Drives LED strings up to 30V
•  1MHz fixed frequency minimizes the external

components

•  20kHz~1MHz wide dimming frequency range for

EN/PWM pin
Internal softstart limits the inrush current

•
•  Open LED over voltage protection
•  RoHS Compliant and Halogen Free
•  Compact package: DFN3X3-10

Ordering Information

SY7203

□□□□(□□□□□□□□)□□□□

Temperature  Code
Package Code
Optional Spec Code

Temperature Range: -40°C to 85°C
Package type
DFN3X3-10

Ordering Number
SY7203DBC

Note

Typical Applications

Applications

•  GPS Navigation Systems
•  Handheld Devices
•  Portable Media Players

Figure 1. Schematic Diagram

 SY7203 Rev. 0.9          Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only          1

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

Pinout (top view)

AN_SY7203

                                    (DFN3X3-10)

Top mark： NZxyz (Device code: NZ,  x=year code, y=week code, z= lot number code)

Pin Name
LX

DFN3X3-10
4, 5

GND
FB

Exposed Paddle
2

EN/PWM

OVP

IN

NC

9

8

7

1, 3, 6, 10

Pin Description
Inductor node. Connect an inductor from power input to LX
pin.
Ground pin
Feedback pin. Connect a resistor RFB between FB and GND
to program the output current: ILED=0.2V/RFB.
Enable  and  dimming  control.  Pull  high  to  turn  on  IC.  The
recommend dimming frequency range is 20kHz~1MHz.

Over  voltage  protection  input.  Connect  to  the  output  of
circuit. The typical OVP value is 30V.
Input  pin.  Decouple  this  pin  to  GND  pin  with  1uF  ceramic
cap.
No connection

Absolute Maximum Ratings
IN, EN/PWM ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 32V
LX, OVP ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 36V
All other pins ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4V
Power Dissipation, PD @ TA = 25°C, DFN3X3-10 ----- -------------------------------------------------------------2.6 W
Package Thermal Resistance (Note 2)

DFN3X3-10, θJA ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------38°C/W
DFN3X3-10, θJC -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------8°C/W
Junction Temperature Range -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 125°C
Lead Temperature (Soldering, 10 sec.) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 260°C
Storage Temperature Range ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -65°C to 150°C
Recommended Operating Conditions
Input Voltage Supply ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2.8V to 30V
Junction Temperature Range ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -40°C to 125°C
Ambient Temperature Range ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -40°C to 85°C

AN_SY7203 Rev. 9     Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only     2

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

Electrical Characteristics
(VIN = 3.6V, TA = 25°C, unless otherwise specified)

Parameter
Input Voltage Range
Quiescent Current
Shutdown Current
Feedback Reference Voltage
FB Input Current
Low Side Main FET RON
Main FET Current Limit
EN Rising Threshold
EN Falling Threshold
IN UVLO Rising Threshold
UVLO Hysteresis
Switching Frequency
Minimum ON Time
Maximum Duty Cycle
OVP Threshold
Thermal Shutdown
Temperature
Thermal Hysteresis

Symbol
VIN
IQ
ISHDN
VREF
IFB
RDS(ON)1
ILIM1
VENH
VENL
VIN,UVLO
UVLO,HYS
FSW
TON,MIN
DMAX
VOVP

TSD

THYS

Conditions

VFB=0.3V
EN=0

VFB=0.3V

Open LED

AN_SY7203

Min  Typ  Max
2.8

30
200
15
204
1

0.4
2.4

1.2

196

4
1.5

0.8

100
10
200

100

0.2
1
100
90
30

150

20

Unit
V
µA
µA
mV
µA
mΩ
A
V
V
V
V
MHz
nS
%
V

°C

°C

Note 1: Stresses beyond the “Absolute Maximum Ratings” may cause permanent damage to the device. These are
stress ratings only. Functional operation of the device at these or any other conditions beyond those indicated in
the operational sections of the specification is not implied. Exposure to absolute maximum rating conditions for
extended periods may affect device reliability.

Note 2: Test condition: Device mounted on 2” x 2” FR-4 substrate PCB, 2oz copper, with minimum
recommended pad on top layer and thermal vias to bottom layer ground plane.

Note 3: The device is not guaranteed to function outside its operating conditions.

AN_SY7203 Rev. 9     Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only     3

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

AN_SY7203

Typical Performance Characteristics
(VIN=5V, ILED=0.3A, 5PCS LED Series)

Efficiency vs. Input Voltage

)

A
m

(

t
n
e
r
r
u
C
D
E
L

4

6

8
Input Voltage (V)

10

12

Quiescent Current  vs. Input Voltage

96

95

94

93

92

91

90

190

180

170

160

150

140

3

6

9

18

15

21
12
Input Voltage (V)

24

27

30

AN_SY7203 Rev. 9     Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only     4

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

AN_SY7203

AN_SY7203 Rev. 9     Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only     5

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

Applications Information
Because of the high integration in the IC, the is simple.
Only  input  capacitor  CIN,  output  capacitor  COUT,
inductor  L,  Schottky  diode  D  and  sense  resistors  R1
need  to  be  selected  for  the  targeted  applications
specifications.

Sense resistor R1 :
Choose  R1  to  program  the  proper  LED  Current.  The
R1 can be calculated to be:

=

R1

0.2
LEDI

ILED is the average LED current.

Input capacitor CIN:
The ripple current through input capacitor is calculated
as:

I
CIN_RMS

=

V

IN

(V

OUT

)V
IN

FL32

SW

V

OUT

An  X5R  or  better  grade  ceramic  capacitor  with
capacitance  larger  than  4.7uF  is  recommended  to
handle this ripple current. Place this ceramic capacitor
really  close  to  the  IN  and  GND  pins  to  minimize  the
potential  noise  problem.  Care  should  be  taken  to
minimize  the  loop  area  formed  by  CIN,  and  IN/GND
pins.

Output capacitor COUT:
The  output  capacitor  is  selected  to  handle  the  output
ripple noise requirements. This ripple voltage is related
to the capacitor’s capacitance and its equivalent series
resistance  (ESR).  For  the  best  performance,  it  is
recommended  to  use  X5R  or  better  grade  low  ESR
ceramic  capacitor.  The  voltage  rating  of  the  output
capacitor  should  be  higher  than  the  maximum  output
voltage.  The  minimum  required  capacitance  can  be
calculated as:

C

OUT

=

I
OUT,

MAX

(V

OUT

)V
IN

F

SW

V

OUT

V

RIPPLE

RIPPLE

 is the peak to peak output ripple.

V
For LED applications, the equivalent resistance of the
LED is typically low. The output capacitance should be
large enough to attenuate the ripple current through
LED. A capacitor larger than 2.2uF is recommended.

AN_SY7203

Inductor L:
There are several considerations in choosing this
inductor.

1)  Choose  the  inductance  to  provide  the  desired
ripple  current. It is suggested to  choose  the ripple
current  to  be  about  40%  of  the  average  input
current. The inductance is calculated as:

IN

L

=



V
V

OUT

2





OUT

(V
I
OUT,

F

SW

)V
IN

MAX

40%

where FSW is the switching frequency and IOUT,MAX is
the maximum load current.
The  SY7203  regulator  IC  is quite tolerant  of  different
ripple current amplitude. Consequently, the final choice
of  inductance  can  be  slightly  off  the  calculation  value
without significantly impacting the performance.

2)  The  saturation  current  rating  of  the  inductor  must
be  selected  to  be  greater  than  the  peak  inductor
current under full load conditions.

I
SAT,

MIN

>



V
V

IN

OUT


·


I
OUT,

MAX

+



V
V

IN

OUT

2





OUT

(V
F2

SW

)V
IN
L

3)  The  DCR  of  the  inductor  and  the  core  loss  at  the
switching  frequency  must  be  low  enough  to
achieve  the  desired  efficiency  requirement.  It  is
choose
desirable
inductor  with
to
DCR<50mohm
to  achieve  a  good  overall
efficiency.

an

Schottky Diode D:
Because  of  high  switching  speed  of  SY7203,  a
Schottky diode with low forward voltage drop and fast
switching  speed  is  desirable  for  the  application.  The
voltage  rating  of  the  diode  must  be  higher  than
maximum  output  voltage.  The  diode’s  average  and
peak  current  rating  should  exceed  the  average  output
current and peak inductor current.

Dimming Control
SY7203  offers  several  different  dimming  schemes  for
LED  brightness  control.  One  way  is  to  apply  a  PWM
signal  to  the  EN/PWM  pin.  Fig.2  shows  the  internal
block diagram of the dimming circuit of SY7203. The
PWM signal changes the regulation voltage by change

AN_SY7203 Rev. 0.9       Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only          6

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

(cid:215)
(cid:215)
(cid:215)
-
(cid:215)

(cid:215)
(cid:215)
-
(cid:215)

·
·
-

·
·
-

the duty cycle. The relationship between the duty cycle
and FB voltage is calculated as:
VFB=Duty*200mV

 Figure 2

Since  the  cut-off  frequency  of  the  internal  low  pass
filter  is  near  5kHz,  it  is  recommended  selecting  the
PWM signal frequency to be higher than 20kHz.

Another way is to use a DC voltage as shown in Fig.3.
The  LED  current  decreases  as  the  DC  voltage  rises.
The relationship between LED current and DC voltage
is:

V

REF

=

I

LED

(

+
)
R R
1
2
R R
2

FB

V

DC

R
1

Where VREF is the 200mV internal reference voltage,
VDC is the dimming DC voltage.

VOUT

FB

R2

R1

RFB

VDC

Figure 3

A  filtered  PWM  signal  can  be  used  to  substituted  the
DC input as shown in Fig.4.To better filter out the AC
components  of  the  PWM  signal,  it  is  recommend
choosing the same value for R2 and R3 and the cut-off
frequency of the low pass filter (formed by R2//R3 and
C1)  to  be  well  below  the  dimming  signal  frequency.
The LED current decreases as the duty cycle increases.
The  LED  current  can  be  calculated  using  equation
below:

AN_SY7203

V

REF

=

I

LED

(

+
+
R R
2
1
R
(
2

R
)
3
+
R
3

)

V
PWM
R

FB

Duty R
1

Where  VREF  is  the  200mV  internal  reference  voltage,
VPWM is the high voltage level of PWM signal, Duty is
the duty cycle of PWM signal.

VOUT

R1

RFB

PWM Signal

R3

FB

R2

C1

Figure 4

Layout Design:
The  layout  design  of  SY7203  regulator  is  relatively
simple.  For  the  best  efficiency  and  minimum  noise
problems,  we  should  place  the  following  components
close to the IC: CIN, COUT, L, R1 and D.

1)  It  is  desirable  to  maximize  the  PCB  copper  area
connecting to GND pin to achieve the best thermal and
noise  performance.    If  the  board  space  allowed,  a
ground plane is highly desirable.

2) CIN must be close to Pins IN and GND. The loop
area formed by CIN and GND must be minimized.

3) Minimize the loop area of LX, D, COUT and GND.
4) The PCB copper area associated with LX pin must
be minimized to avoid the potential noise problem.

5) The components R1, the trace connecting to the FB
pin must NOT be adjacent to the LX net on the PCB
layout to avoid the noise problem.

6) If the system chip interfacing with the EN pin has a
high impedance state at shutdown mode and the IN pin
is connected directly to a power source such as a Li-Ion
battery, it is desirable to add a pull down 1Mohm
resistor between the EN and GND pins to prevent the
noise from falsely turning on the regulator at shutdown
mode.

AN_SY7203 Rev. 0.9       Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only          7

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

·
-
·
·

·
-
·
·
·

AN_SY7203

4

R

N
N
I
C
I
C

N
E
S
R

T
U
O
C

1

D

AN_SY7203 Rev. 0.9       Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only          8

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

 DFN3x3-10 Package outline

AN_SY7203

        Top View                                                                     PCB layout (recommended)

Side View

Notes:  All dimensions are in millimeters and exclude mold flash & metal burr.

Bottom View

Detail A
Pin1 identifier: two options

AN_SY7203 Rev. 0.9       Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only          9

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

AN_SY7203

Taping & Reel Specification

1.     DFN3x3-10 taping orientation

3.9/4.1

1.45/1.55

3
.
2
1
/
7
.
1
1

                                                     Feeding direction

2.  Carrier Tape & Reel specification for packages

Reel
Width

Reel
Size

Package
types

Tape width
(mm)

Pocket
pitch(mm)

Reel size
(Inch)

Reel
width(mm)

Trailer
length(mm)

Leader length
(mm)

Qty per
reel

DFN3x3-10

10

8

13"

12.4

400

400

5000

3.  Others:  NA

AN_SY7203 Rev. 0.9       Silergy Corp. Confidential- Prepared for Customer Use Only          10

Silergy Corp. Confidential-Prepared for Rockchip

